MalfurionWhitehat

high

# Protection sellers can claim unlocked capital even after a lockCapital event, which reduces the payout funding source

## Summary

Protection sellers can claim unlocked capital even after a lockCapital event, which reduces the payout funding source, contradicting the whitepaper.

## Vulnerability Detail

Protection sellers can claim unlocked capital even if `DefaultStateManager` called `lockCapital()` in case of a late payment of the lending pool or a default event. 

This is because `DefaultStateManager` will rely on [snapshot balances](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L500-L505) and [not](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L427-L444) on `totalSTokenUnderlying`, which will have been reduced. 

As a result, the payout funding source (item number 2. from the [whitepaper](https://www.carapace.finance/WhitePaper#default-payouts)) for defaults can be compromised. 

> Payouts Funds Source
> Default payouts will be funded by the following sources (in this order):
> 
> 1. Non-accrued premium of defaulted underlying loans
> 2. Underlying amount of sTokens including accrued premium
> 3. Backstop treasury funds
> 4. Other non-accrued premium
> 5. CARA token backstop
> 
> The accrued premium is the allocated portion of the premium that has already been distributed to sellers. The non-accrued premium is the premium that has been collected from buyers but is yet to be allocated to sellers. The non-accrued premium of the defaulted underlying loans from the claiming buyer should be used first because this capital is supposed to be distributed to the protection sellers who are facing defaulted underlying loans. The other non-accrued premium should not be used until other capital is depleted. Otherwise, protection sellers have no incentive to keep their capital in a pool.

## Impact

Protection sellers can claim unlocked capital in case of a late payment of the lending pool or a default event, compromising payout funding source. 

Because this issue leads to user loss of funds without any preconditions, the assigned severity is High.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L427-L444

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L500-L505

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Include the `whenPoolIsOpen` modifier on the `ProtectionPool.claimUnlockedCapital` function in order to prevent users from claiming unlocked capital in case of a late payment.