charlesjhongc

medium

# Vulnerable to flashloan attack

## Summary

An attacker may leverage flashloan of sToken to claim capital from a protection pool without actually provide underlying token.

## Vulnerability Detail

Because sToken is an ERC20 with snapshot and the snapshotted balance is referenced in the protocol, it's possible to manipulate snapshotted balance by using flashloan. For example someone first acquire sToken from flashloan then call the `assessStates()` in `DefaultStateManager.sol`. It may cause the capital being locked and the snapshot [being taken](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L397). After that, the attacker may simply return those borrowed sToken in the same tx and the manipulated balance will be recored with new snapshot id. Then once the capital becomes unlocked, the attacker could claim tokens from protection pool.

Although it may be unlikely that sToken owner will provide their tokens to a pool that supports flashloan because their snapshotted balance will be decreased, it's still feasible if a user wants to. The security should be ensured by the protocol instead of an assumption of how token holder manage their tokens.

## Impact

Protection seller lost underlying tokens.

## Code Snippet

```solidity
contract Attacker {
  function attack() external {
    // Fist step, get flashloan
    somePool.executeFlashloan();
  
    // Then call assessStates and trigger sToken snapshot
    DefaultStateManager.assessStates()
  
    // Last, return the flashloan to twist the snapshotted balance
   returnFlashloan();
  }
  
  function claim() external {
    ProtectionPool.claimUnlockedCapital();
  }
}
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Forbid contract interacting with `assessStates()` and `assessStateBatch()` functions so flashloan is not available. For example adding `onlyEOA` modifier for these two functions.
