Tricko

high

# Claimable amounts not accumulated correctly in `claimUnlockedCapital` can lead to loss of funds to depositors.

## Summary
`_calculateClaimableAmount` only claims the most recent claimable amount, earlier entries in the `lockedCapitals` array are not accumulated correctly in `_claimableUnlockedCapital`.

## Vulnerability Detail
Whenever the function `claimUnlockedCapital` is invoked, it loops through all of the lending pools within a protection pool. For each lending pool, it also loops through the `lockedCapitals` array to determine the appropriate amount that can be claimed. However, the amounts that can be claimed for each `lockedCapitals` position are not being correctly accumulated in the `_claimableUnlockedCapital` variable. As a result, only the claimable amount for the last `lockedCapitals` position will be recorded.

## Impact
On lending pools with `lockedCapitals.length > 1`, depositors can only claim the most recent locked capital. All the earlier ones will be locked in the contract, resulting in permanent loss to the depositors.

## Code Snippet
Consider the following snippet from the `_calculateClaimableAmount` function. See that the `lockedCapitals` array is iterated and each position claimable amount is calculated, but these values are not accumulated in `_claimableUnlockedCapital`. As a result after the loop ends, `_claimableUnlockedCapital` corresponds only to the last position claimable amount.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L453-L521

## Tool used
Manual review

## Recommendation
Consider modifying `_calculateClaimableAmount` as shown in diff snippet below.

```diff
diff --git a/DefaultStateManager.sol.orig b/DefaultStateManager.sol
index bcee147..d247c86 100644
--- a/DefaultStateManager.sol.orig
+++ b/DefaultStateManager.sol
@@ -499,7 +499,7 @@ contract DefaultStateManager is UUPSUpgradeableBase, IDefaultStateManager {

         /// The claimable amount for the given seller is proportional to the seller's share of the total supply at the snapshot
         /// claimable amount = (seller's snapshot balance / total supply at snapshot) * locked capital amount
-        _claimableUnlockedCapital =
+        _claimableUnlockedCapital +=
           (_poolSToken.balanceOfAt(_seller, _snapshotId) *
             lockedCapital.amount) /
           _poolSToken.totalSupplyAt(_snapshotId);
```