carrot

high

# Users can skip withdrawal timelocks by spamming requestWithdrawal every cycle

## Summary
The protocol is designed to "lock" the liquidity in the pool till 2 cycles after a user has decided to withdraw. This design is in place, to prevent a user from immediately withdrawing their liquidity on suspicion of an incoming default. This forces sellers to take the risk of the debt. However, due to the design of the protocol, a user can request a withdrawal every cycle, and from 2 cycles after that, can withdraw their liquidity at any cycle without going through the timelock.
## Vulnerability Detail
Say a seller deposits 1000 tokens in cycle 1. They immediately request a withdrawal, which makes them eligible for withdrawal in cycle 3. 
In every subsequent cycle (n), the user can request withdrawal again, allowing them to withdraw in a cycle n+2.
Thus, from every cycle starting from cycle 3, the seller does not have to wait for the timelock anymore. Ex- In cycle 12, they can immediately withdraw since they had submitted a request in cycle 10 for the 1000 tokens. This allows the user to bail out with their liquidity at any cycle, as long as the status of the pool is not locked.

This is due to the following lines, where the `WithdrawalCycleDetail` is updated without making any checks on pending withdrawal requests.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1077-L1083

Since this goes against the design docs and is the optimal way for sellers to behave, it is being classified as HIGH.
## Impact
Allows sellers to bypass timelock after the first 2 cycles
## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1077-L1083
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Can be mitigated in 2 ways:
1. Stop users from receiving premiums the moment they request a withdrawal. This disincentivizes users as they stop earning yield. This can be implemented by recording the exact amount of premium rewards they can collect by recording the `exchangeRate` at the time of withdrawal requests.
2. Keep an account of `totalWithdrawRequest` for each user, and make sure `totalWithdrawalRequest[msg.sender] < stoken.balanceOf(msg.sender)`. `totalWithdrawRequest` tracks the total pending withdrawals over all future cycles, and thus prevents users from opening withdrawal requests for their entire amount each cycle.