ck

high

# Withdrawal cycle restriction can be bypassed

## Summary

Withdrawal cycle restriction can be bypassed

## Vulnerability Detail

The condition that a withdrawal shouldn't be allowed unless the withdrawal request is made in the n - 2 cycle can be bypassed as follows:

A malicious seller calls `ProtectionPool::requestWithdrawal` with the `_sTokenAmount` they hold. They will then be able to withdraw in cycle 3

```solidity
    /// Actual withdrawal is allowed in open period of cycle after next cycle
    /// For example: if request is made in at some time in cycle 1,
    /// then withdrawal is allowed in open period of cycle 3
    uint256 _withdrawalCycleIndex = _currentCycleIndex + 2;

    WithdrawalCycleDetail storage withdrawalCycle = withdrawalCycleDetails[
      _withdrawalCycleIndex
    ];
```
Next they transfer their `_sTokenAmount` to a second address and again request withdrawal using that second address.
At this stage both addresses will be able to withdraw in cycle 3 as long as they hold sTokens equal to `_sTokenAmount`. Note that only the second address has sTokens at this point.

The malicious seller can then buy protection using the first address during the next cycle(cycle 2) and get sTokens. As the address had already made a withdrawal request in the previous cycle, they will be able to successfully wwithdraw just one cycle later without creating a new withdrawal request.

They will also be able to withdraw protection using the second address as scheduled as it holds the inital sTokens.

## Impact

The safeguards are intended to prevent sellers from earning interest without being exposed to default risk. It is also used by buyers to estimate how much seller capital is available during cycles. Therefore having this safeguard bypassed could lead to sellers gaming the protocol to earn interest while exposing buyers to insolvency risk.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1061-L1083

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L226-L275

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

An additional check may be necessary to determine when an address made a deposit. This is however complicated as it would affect addresses that have received sTokens from another address.