XKET

high

# Sellers can bypass the withdrawal limit and earn premiums without any risk.



## Summary
Sellers should request the withdrawal first and wait for 2 cycles to withdraw their shares.

But sellers can bypass this withdrawal limit and make it possible to withdraw their shares right before any defaults using frontrunning.

## Vulnerability Detail
Sellers can request a withdrawal and `_requestWithdrawal()` checks if the requested amount is less than their balance.

```solidity
File: ProtectionPool.sol
1061:   function _requestWithdrawal(uint256 _sTokenAmount) internal {
1062:     uint256 _sTokenBalance = balanceOf(msg.sender);
1063:     if (_sTokenAmount > _sTokenBalance) {
1064:       revert InsufficientSTokenBalance(msg.sender, _sTokenBalance);
1065:     }
```

But it doesn't check the already requested withdrawal amount on other cycles and sellers can avoid the risk of default like below.

1. Let's assume CycleDuration = 30 days, OpenPeriod = 7 days.
2. At cycle 1, a seller `Alice` deposits 100 underlying and requests a withdrawal of 100. So she will get the right to withdraw at the open period of cycle 3.
3. At cycle 2, `Alice` requests another withdrawal with her already existing shares and she can withdraw 100 at cycle 4 also.
4. At the start time of cycle 3, `Alice` requests a withdrawal for cycle 5 again.
5. On the 7th day of cycle 3, `Alice` withdraws her whole shares(100 underlying) and she has no risk of defaults after earning premiums for 7 days.
6. At the start time of cycle 4, `Alice` deposits 100 underlying again and requests to withdraw at cycle 6.
7. At the 7th day of cycle4, `Alice` withdraws her shares again. She continues steps 6 and 7 for each cycle.

The most important thing is that `Alice` can withdraw her shares right before the defaults by frontrunning.

So she deposits/withdraws during the open period of each cycle from cycle 3 and earns premiums for these 7 days without the risk of defaults.

## Impact
Sellers can earn premiums without any risk of defaults.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L208

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
We should check if the total requested amount shouldn't be greater than seller's balance.

So if a seller requests a withdrawal at cycle 1:
1. If it's the open period of cycle 1, total requested amount for cycle 1, cycle 2, and cycle3 should be equal or less than his balance.
2. If it's not the open period of cycle 1, total requested amount for cycle 2 and cycle 3 should be equal or less than his balance.