Web3SecurityDAO

medium

# Late payment in lending pool can DoS the carapace pool and lock up unaccrued premium

## Summary
When all capitals are locked due to a late payment in lending pool, the exchange rate will be 0, causing ProtectionPool.deposit() to fail. The pool will be stuck with remaining premium locked in the contract.

## Vulnerability Detail
 In ProtectionPool.sol, lockCapital() will reduce totalSTokenUnderlying to 0 when all the capitals are locked (lending pool in Late state). This will deny sellers from calling ProtectionPool.deposit() as a division by zero error will occur in in convertToSToken() due to _getExchangeRate() returning 0. The exchange rate is 0 as the numerator is totalSTokenUnderlying. 
 
This will be more severe when the lending pool miss all the subsequent payments and go into default, causing remaining premium not to be accrued. Then totalSTokenUnderlying will remain at 0. When this happens, even adding a new lending pool will not recover the issue as no sellers can deposit. Without seller deposits, the pool will be stuck and require re-deployment to proceed.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L415-L422
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L913-L931
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L605
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1035

## Impact
If sellers are unable to deposit and premiums are not accrued (due to missed payments), the pool will be stuck and as deposit and premium accrual are the only ways in the code to increase totalSTokenUnderlying and set exchange rate to a non-zero value. This will cause all the remaining un-accrued premium to be locked in the pool as there are no way in the code to retrieve them after missed payments and default. Furthermore, the protocol will be DoS-ed and require to be redeployed.


## Code Snippet
add the test case below to DefaultStateManager.test.ts  at line 474 when all the capitals are locked up resulting in zero exchange rate. The test case will show that sellers cannot deposit when exchange rate = 0. 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/test/contracts/DefaultStateManager.test.ts#L474

      it("...unable to deposit when exchange rate = 0 (due to zero totalSTokenUnderlying)", async () => {

        const _underlyingAmount: BigNumber = parseUSDC("1000");
        const _accountAddress = await seller.getAddress();

        await transferAndApproveUsdc(seller, _underlyingAmount, poolInstance.address);

        await expect(
          poolInstance
            .connect(seller)
            .deposit(_underlyingAmount, _accountAddress)
        )
          .to.emit(poolInstance, "ProtectionSold")
          .withArgs(_accountAddress, _underlyingAmount);

      });

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider putting in an initial deposit that cannot be withdrawn or locked up so that totalSTokenUnderlying is always > 0.

