Kumpa

high

# After the pool returns from the locked state, ```_getExchangeRate()``` may be broken and stop ```deposit()``` from functioning

## Summary
When the pool is in lock state, ```totalSTokenUnderlying``` is set to zero but totalSupply() of SToken is not adjusted (or burn) to match the change in ```totalSTokenUnderlying```. The result may cause ```_getExchangeRate()``` to always return zero, leading to sellers unable to deposit underlying token into the pool after the pool becomes active again after the locked state.  

## Vulnerability Detail
1.When the pool get ```lockedCapital()```, if ```totalSTokenUnderlying``` is less than protection amount or remaining principal, then ```totalSTokenUnderlying``` is set to zero.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L413-L422

2.```totalSupply() of SToken```, however, remains unchanged 

3.If the pool becomes active again, no user will be able to deposit again because  ```_getExchangeRate()``` will always return zero due to ```totalSTokenUnderlying``` equal to zero, causing ``` convertToSToken```, which relies on ```_getExchangeRate()``` to calculate the amount of SToken that user may receive, to revert.

The exchange rate will always be zero.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L913-L930 

Because totalSupply of SToken is not changed or burned to zero, ```convertToSToken()``` will then proceed to the calculation that relies on exchange rate which will always return zero. Since it is impossible to be divided by zero, convertToSToken will then revert. 

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L589-L606





## Impact
This vulnerability may not directly impact the withdrawal side of sellers because they can opt to withdraw their underlying token via claim function but it will break the deposit function of the contract which will affect the buyer side who face the risk of future default. If there is any default happens in the future, there will be no more SToken from sellers to payout to the buyer. 


## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L413-L422
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L913-L930 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L589-L606



## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
totalSupply() of SToken should get updated whenever there is a change in ```totalSTokenUnderlying```. 

