0Kage

high

# Protection sellers can front-run accrued premium updates and make instant arbitrage profits

## Summary
Accrued premium for lending pools is updated via a `cron job` after every payment on underlying lending pool. Accrual increases the `totalSTokenUnderlying`, ie. total underlying backed by `sTokens`. This inturn increases the exchange rate of `sTokens`. All things equal, an accrue premium transaction increases the price of `sTokens`, ie each token held by a protection seller can be exchanged for a bigger amount of underlying tokens

A protection seller can track payment dates of `GoldFinch` lending pools & front-run any cron operation that accrues premium right after payment date. By selling protection right before the `cron` operation in exchange for `sTokens`, a seller is locking in a lower exchange rate for her underlying deposit. Same underlying will fetch her higher number of `sTokens` than what she would get post premium accrual.

Since whitepaper indicates that there will be a secondary market for `sTokens` on Uniswap, such seller can immediately sell these tokens after exchange rate increases (post cron job). Repeatedly doing this effectively makes protection seller earn arbitrage profits. Such profits are at the expense of existing protection sellers

## Vulnerability Detail
Technical docs and natspec for [`_accruePremiumAndExpireProtections`]() confirms that accrued premium is updated only after payment date. 

```solidity
/**
   * @dev Accrue premium for all active protections and mark expired protections for the specified lending pool.
   * Premium is only accrued when the lending pool has a new payment.

   function _accruePremiumAndExpireProtections(
    LendingPoolDetail storage lendingPoolDetail,
    uint256 _lastPremiumAccrualTimestamp,
    uint256 _latestPaymentTimestamp
  )   internal
    returns (
      uint256 _accruedPremiumForLendingPool,
      uint256 _totalProtectionRemoved
    )
  {
    ...
    }
**/
```

Function loops through each lending pool & checks if latest payment timestamp is updated. If yes, then premium is accrued and added to the `totalSTokenUnderlying` in [`accruePremiumAndExpireProtections`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L327)

```solidity
  function accruePremiumAndExpireProtections(address[] memory _lendingPools)
    external
    override
  {
    ...

    if (_totalPremiumAccrued > 0) {
      totalPremiumAccrued += _totalPremiumAccrued;
      totalSTokenUnderlying += _totalPremiumAccrued;
    }
    ...

  }
```

Increasing the `totalSTokenUnderlying` increases the exchange rate of `sTokens` calculated in the [`_getExchangeRate` function](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L913)

```solidity

  function _getExchangeRate() internal view returns (uint256) {
    ...
    uint256 _exchangeRate = (_totalScaledCapital *
      Constants.SCALE_18_DECIMALS) / _totalSTokenSupply; //- audit _totalScaledCapital is totalSTokenUnderlying converted to 18 decimals
    ...
}
```

When a new seller [deposits](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1035) underlying token, she receives shares based on prevailing `exchangeRate`.

```solidity
  function _deposit(uint256 _underlyingAmount, address _receiver) internal {
    ...
        uint256 _sTokenShares = convertToSToken(_underlyingAmount);
    ...
    }
```

```solidity
  function convertToSToken(uint256 _underlyingAmount)
    public
    view
    override
    returns (uint256)
  {

    ...
       return
      (_scaledUnderlyingAmt * Constants.SCALE_18_DECIMALS) / _getExchangeRate();
  }
```

Note that a lower exchange rate leads to a higher number of shares.

User can easily calculate the next payment date by combining `getPaymentPeriodInDays` and `getLatestPaymentTimestamp` functions in `GoldfinchAdapter`. On this day, seller can front run the `accruePremiumAndExpireProtection` cron job and sell protection at a cheaper exchange rate. Immediately after cron executes, price re-adjusts upwards. Seller can then go to secondary market on Uniswap to sell the tokens to earn instant arbitrage profit

Note that white paper indicates presence of secondary market on Uniswap. Here is an excerpt

_"If sellers wish to redeem their capital and interest before the lockup period, they might be able to find a buyer of their SToken in a secondary market like Uniswap"_

## Impact
There is no free lunch - the free profits made by a seller by front-running is borne by other existing protection sellers. Had such an attack not been executed, the accrual profits would have been distributed to all sellers proportionately.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L327

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L913

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1035

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation

Key vulnerability here is that premium accrual is discrete & not continuous. Having a `cron` job discreetly update accrued premium exposes the protocol to front-running risks. 

This design choice by devs is perplexing as premium accrues to sellers regardless of what happens on payment date. Underlying loan payments don't matter to sellers as their source of accrued premium is NOT the underlying loan payment but the premium already paid by protection buyers. Whether loan defaults or pays full amount, premium sellers will anyway accrue premium based on existing buyer commitments. 

Premium accrual should be made as continuous as possible - currently it is discreetly run based on payment dates. Recommend premium accrual to be run as part of cron job every few seconds (based on gas costs, protocol can take an appropriate decision on time interval). Payment dates are arbitrary milestones irrelevant to premium accrual & create unnecessary front-running risks.