jkoppel

high

# Buyer can buy protection only for expected payment days by abusing renewals

## Summary

Protection buyer can have a protection that expires and renews every day. On days when a payment is expected, they set the renewal to their full principal. On other days, they set the renewal to a tiny amount.

## Vulnerability Detail

ProtectionPoolHelper.verifyBuyerCanRenewProtection contains no checks for how much protection is under a renewal. The renewed protection can be for 1/1000th as much as the previous, or for 1000x more. 

Further, each renewal can be for a minimum period of one day.  See https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L57-L59

So, buyers can employer the following strategy:

Day 1: Buy protection for the minimum possible amount (namely 0).
Day 90: Protection expires. Renew for 1 day, still protecting minimum amount.
Day 91: Protection expires. Renew for 1 day, still protecting minimum amount.
...
Day N: Protection from previous day expires.  Missed payment is expected. Renew for 1 day, this time protecting the maximum amount.

The buyer can even do this right before DefaultStateManager._assesStates is called, ensuring they never buy protection until the moment they need it.

The docs state: "Existing lenders cannot buy protection anytime they want. Otherwise, they would buy protection right before the missed payment."

But, putting these two facts together, "buying protection right before the missed payment" is very possible.

This issue is separate from https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace-jkoppel/issues/9 . That also involves abusing renewals, but it is based on the renewal grace period, whereas this is based on the ability to alter the size of protection across renewals.

## Impact

Buyers can protect their full principal for close to zero.

## Code Snippet

verifyCanRenewProtection: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L360

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Require renewals to be for the same amount as the original purchase.