monrel

high

# Protection buyers can exploit renewal functionality to enable and disable protection and as a result pay much less premium


## Summary

A buyer can time their renewal dates and change the protected amount to pay a premium during periods when the lenderpool is at risk of a default and only pay a negligible amount for the rest of the time. By doing so a buyer of protection can abuse the system and be guaranteed default payouts during an extend period while paying a premium that is much lower than it should be. 
## Vulnerability Detail

When a protection expires the buyer has the ability to renew the protection during a grace period. When a buyer calls the `renewProtection()` function in a ProtectionPool the `verifyBuyerCanRenewProtection()` function is called in ProtectoinPoolhelper to assess if the buyer is eligible for a renewal. The function check that the buyer is buying protection for the same loan with the following code:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L383-L388

It does not enforce that the new protection amount is equal the old one. Buyers can therefore change the protection amount when renewing a protection.

When the `verifyBuyerCanRenewProtection()` function is passed the `_verifyAndCreateProtection()` function is called. For a renewal the duration of the protection can be set arbitrarly by the buyer as long as it is more than 1 day and does not extend over the next cycle's end time. This is enforced in the `_verifyProtectionDuration()` function. 

We should also note that there is no minimum protection amount and that the premium is calculated with $$premium = (carapaceRiskPremium +underlyingRiskPremium)*protectionAmount$$
A very small protectionAmount will therefore result in an even smaller premium. 

With the ability to change the protection amount with each renewal and the ability to chose the exact end time between (1 day) - (end of next cycle) a buyer can craft strategies to protect their loans while paying much less than they should. 




Here is how you could construct a strategy that pays less than it should while being protected.

1. In cycle n you buy 100% protection for 90 days.
2. In cycle n+1 during the grace period you renew to a negligible protection amount e.g. 1000 wei and pay a very small premium. You carefully set the end time to before the next payment deadline such that the grace period covers the deadline. 
3. On the day of the deadline you have the optionality to renew. The new protection amount and duration will depend on if a payment has been made or not.
	- If a payment has already happened you renew with the same minimal amount to just before the next payment deadline. 
	- If no payment is done you front-run the `assesState()` that would put the lendingpool in a lateWithGracePeriod state and renew your protection to again protect 100% of the assets. The duration is set to the latest possible day a default could happen, 2 payment periods. At that point the renewal is again done with a minimal amount and the expiration date set just before the next payment.

A buyer can continue with the same strategy until the lenderPool expires. 

Actual front-running is not even necessary, it is reasonable to assume that the payment is unlikely to be repaid ~30sec before the deadline. A buyer could simply buy the protection a few blocks before the deadline to guarantee that they are protected. This lowers the barrier since less sophisticated users could execute this. Other users can chose to wait until the block where the deadline is reached and outbid `assesState()` transaction if it is called. Even this is most likely not necessary since `assesState()` is called on a daily basis and not instantly when a state change is possible. 

To pay even less premium a buyer could  start out with ~0 protection amount and then start the strategy when renewing. This is a little riskier since they don't have protection for the first 90 days but they could potentially pay ~0 and be protected for the entire life time of the lenderpool if a payment is never missed. 

## Impact

The result of this vulnerability is that protection buyers after the initial 90 days can pay essentially nothing when the pool is active and payments are made in time while retaining the ability to get fully protected when the pool is at risk of a default. 

This breaks fundamental assumptions that the protocol has been design around. From the docs: 

"A buyer can only buy new protection within 90 days after a lending pool is added to our pool. After that point, they will not be able to purchase protection. Existing lenders cannot buy protection anytime they want. Otherwise, they would buy protection right before the missed payment. Since credit default swaps exist to deal with uncertainty, we cannot allow them to buy when they are certain that a borrower is gonna default."

This vulnerability allows a protection buyer to do just that, they retain the ability to buy protections just before a payment fails by paying a negligible fee. But it is worse than that since they can also "disable" and "enable" their protection.

Buyers abusing this vulnerability would be stealing from seller since they are receiving payouts for defaulted loans that they have not paid the correct premium for. They are also putting legitimate protection buyers at a higher risk of insolvency since the total default payout is inflated in relation to the accrued premium that is used to cover defaults.

## Code Snippet
Code in `verifyBuyerCanRenewProtection()`, does not check the protection amount

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L383-L388

The only constraints on expire time: 

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L467-L470

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L455-L459

## Tool used

Manual Review, vscode, foundry

## Recommendation

Do not allow changes in protection amount when renewing a protection, should check that the new protection amount is equal to the old protection amount.  A check that disallows renewals x seconds before a payment deadline is also needed to force protection buyers to either take on the risk of missing a renewal or actually buying the protection before they know if a payment is going to happen.
