monrel

medium

# Protection amount can be changed when renewing protections

## Summary

Buyers can in practice enter the pool after 90 days by abusing the fact that expired protections can be renewed with a different protection amount.

## Vulnerability Detail

Protection buyers can in practice achieve this by buying a protection in the first 90 days with a very small protection amount that costs ~0. They buy it for 90 days, after those 90 days they can renew it to  another amount and also decide on when it ends. They have now paid ~0 for the firs 90 days and can continue pushing the expiration date and "turn on" the protection by finally changing the protection amount to a substantial amount.  

The premium amount is ~0 during period when a small amount is protected sine the premium amount is calculated like this:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/PremiumCalculator.sol#L118-L120

If the protection amount is very small so will the premium amount.

With [GIP 16](https://messari.io/governor/proposal/cba0ffeb-fc88-46eb-bb11-c113ede0c3fc?daoSlug=goldfinch-governance&daoTab=proposals) borrowers of loans are required to submit monthly credit reports. A protection buyer could time when they wish to actually protect their loan around the change in risk. They can also time them close to when payments are due e.g. to turn on the protection when a payment is close to being late.

## Impact

By abusing the renewal functionality a protection buyer can get around the 90 day limit and buy protection at a later date when the risk is higher. The protection buyer ultimately will pay less premium while being able to position their protection period in an unfair manner. Sellers could be forced to pay for defaults that they otherwise would not be paying for that they have not received the correct amount of premium for. The exact damage depends  on how the protection buyer would have acted in the absence of this vulnerability. 

If they would have bought a protection for the entire duration then seller are missing out on premiums.

If the would not have bough one seller are now in a position where they will have to pay for a default while being unfairly compensated.

## Code Snippet

New protection amount is not checked against the old one
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L383-L388

## Tool used

Manual Review, vscode, foundry

## Recommendation

Disallow changes in protection amount when a pool is renewed. This can be done in the `verifyBuyerCanRenewProtection()` function:

```solidity
        if (
            expiredProtectionPurchaseParams.lendingPoolAddress ==
            _protectionPurchaseParams.lendingPoolAddress &&
            expiredProtectionPurchaseParams.nftLpTokenId ==
            _protectionPurchaseParams.nftLpTokenId &&
+            expiredProtectionPurchaseParams.protectionAmount ==
+           _protectionPurchaseParams.protectionAmount
        ) 
```