monrel

medium

# Protection buyers can receive protection during their final payment period without paying for it

## Summary

Protection buyers can chose the expiration date when renewing as long as it is over 1 day and expires before the end of the next cycle. By chosing to expire the protection just before a payment deadline they can in practice get 1 payment period off free protection. 

## Vulnerability Detail

Any protection buyer can get 1 payment period of free protection by following this strategy:

A protection buyers want 180 days of protection but instead of paying the premium for 180 days they do the following: (Assume 30 day payment frequency, 10 day extension period, lender pool added day 0)
1. Buy 145 days, on day 145 they have 10 days renew. 
2. On day 150 a new payment is due, if the payment is made the buyer does not extend his protection since he is guaranteed to not default in the next 30 days.
3. If no payment is made the protection buyer front-fronts the `assesState()` call and extends his protection to day 180.

If the payment is done before day 150 the protection buyer has secured a 180 day protection by only paying for 150 days. 

## Impact

Protection buyers can abuse this vulnerability to pay less premium than they should. They can receive 30 days free protection. They are in a sense stealing from seller since they are  in practice protected for a period that they are not paying for.

## Code Snippet

The limitation on expiration time is controlled by this code:
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L467-L470

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L455-L459

It is possible for a protection buyer to set it such that the grace period for extension is during a payment deadline where he can monitor if the payment is made or not.

## Tool used

Manual Review, vscode, foundry

## Recommendation

A renewal can never be made x hours before a payment is due. This way protection buyers have to be exposed to the actual risk and either pay for the full period or chose to not renew the protection.