__141345__

high

# LP token should be transferred to the seller if defaulted


## Summary

The LP token is not transferred to the seller in case of defaulted loan. The contract codebase does not implement the documentations functionality. This issue could be abused by malicious users to drain the pool fund. Sellers could lose all the fund.

## Vulnerability Detail

According to the [doc](https://www.carapace.finance/docs/protocol-mechanics/protection_buyers)

> A seller does not need to deposit the LP token in a Carapace pool at the time of purchase - this is only a requirement if a buyer makes a claim for default payout.

The indication is the buyer should transfer the LP token to the seller when making a claim for the payout.

However, in the implementation, the LP is not transferred.

```solidity
File: contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol
289:   function _assessState(ProtectionPoolState storage poolState) internal {

357:           else if (_currentStatus == LendingPoolStatus.Late) {
358:             /// Update the current status of the lending pool to Active
359:             lendingPoolStateDetail.currentStatus = LendingPoolStatus.Defaulted;
360: 
361:             // Default state transition will be implemented in the next version of the protocol
362:             // _moveFromLockedToDefaultedState(poolState, _lendingPool);
363:           }
```

Since the LP token transfer is not required when buying protection, the above issue could be abused. A malicious buyer can use multiple wallet address to buy multiple protections. And claim the payouts repeatedly. Imagine, Alice holds some LP token with amount of $1,000 USDC, and she can buy protection with wallet 1, then transfer the LP token to wallet 2 and buy protection again. This process can be done for many times to buy much more than the real LP token amount. Later when the loan defaulted, Alice could claim for the payouts multiple times without transferring the LP token. Even worse, malicious user can lend to self with different wallets in the lending pool, and artificially making the loan defaulted, in order the trick the protection payout system.


## Impact

Protection sellers could lose fund to malicious users. The pool fund could be drained.


## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L357-L363

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

When the status is defaulted, transfer the LP token to the seller.
