rvierdiiev

medium

# DefaultStateManager._assessState waits longer to change state to active again

## Summary
DefaultStateManager._assessState waits longer to change state to active again.
## Vulnerability Detail
When lending pool is late in payment, then capital that equals to amount that is needed to cover protections for that pool, [is locked](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L415-L422).
After that protocol [waits some time](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L341-L345)(`_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds`) and there can be 2 options. If payment was not done, then lending pool has defaulted and protection buyers will receive their payment.
Another option is when payment was done and lending pool state becomes active again.

The reason why protocol waits `_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds` amount of times after last payment is to not mark lending pool as defaulted before that time.
However payment can be done earlier than `lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp + _getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds`. In such case lending pool should be marked as active, but function will not do that, as it will wait until that timestamp and only then after `lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp +_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds` timestamp passed, it will mark pool as active.
Depending on payment period, this can be long period between real payment and `lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp +_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds`, and the period of time `lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp +_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds - realPaymentTime` can be big enough. 
## Impact
Pool is in late status more than needed
## Code Snippet
Provided above
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
In case if currentStatus is active then don't need to wait `_getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds` in order to update status.