Web3SecurityDAO

medium

# Protection pool can be forced to lock up excess sellers' capital for default payout of expired protections

## Summary
In the event of a lending pool's late payment, buyers/anyone can trigger the assessStates() and frontrun the cron job's call to accruePremiumAndExpireProtections(), to lock up and use excess sellers' capital for default payout of expired protections before they are removed.

## Vulnerability Detail
The cron job calls accruePremiumAndExpireProtections() on a regular basis to accrue premium and remove expired protections. It also calls assessStates() to performs the state transitions of lending pools and triggers the locking of capital for default payout when the lending pool missed payments.

When there are protections expiring on the same day as the lending pool's missed payment (causing a transition from Active to Late), accruePremiumAndExpireProtections() is supposed to remove the expired protections before assessStates() trigger the locking of capital. However, anyone can track the lending pool for missed payments and trigger assessStates() before the cronjob calls accruePremiumAndExpireProtections() to remove expired protections.

This will cause the protection pool to lock up an incorrect amount of capital for default payout, as it will include additional payout for expired protections. When the lending pool defaults, the locked capital will be used for default payout.

## Impact
The sellers will lose part of their capital as excess amount of capital is used up for the expired protection default payout.  And buyers get default payout for expired protections.

## Code Snippet
Add and run the following test case to ProtectionPool.test.ts at line 795.  It will show that assessStates() will include expired protection during locking of capital.
 https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/test/contracts/ProtectionPool.test.ts#L795

          const printProtectionExpiry = async (
            _buyer: Signer
          ) => {
                let current_timestamp:BigNumber = BigNumber.from((await ethers.provider.getBlock("latest")).timestamp);
                let protectionInfos = await protectionPool.getActiveProtections(_buyer.getAddress());

                for(var i:number = 0; i<protectionInfos.length; i++) {
                  let _expirationTimestamp:BigNumber = protectionInfos[i].startTimestamp.add(protectionInfos[i].purchaseParams.protectionDurationInSeconds); 
                  let _protectionExpired:boolean = current_timestamp > _expirationTimestamp;
                  console.log("    protection is %s", (_protectionExpired ? "expired":"active"));
                }  

          };

          it("...Force protection pool to lock up excess capital for default payout", async () => {

            console.log("----------- buy new protection for _lendingPool2 that will expire on day of missed lending pool payment --------");    
            await printProtectionExpiry(_protectionBuyer1);

            const _protectionAmount = parseUSDC("100000"); // 100,000 USDC
            _purchaseParams = {
              lendingPoolAddress: _lendingPool2,
              nftLpTokenId: 590,
              protectionAmount: _protectionAmount,
              protectionDurationInSeconds: getDaysInSeconds(50)
            };
            await protectionPool.connect(_protectionBuyer1).buyProtection(_purchaseParams, parseUSDC("10000"))
            
            // check that we have one active protection
            expect((await getActiveProtections()).length).to.be.eq(1);

            //pay lending pool to make it current on payment
            await payToLendingPoolAddress(_lendingPool2, "1000000", USDC);
            await payToLendingPoolAddress(_lendingPool1, "1000000", USDC);
            await protectionPool.accruePremiumAndExpireProtections([]);

            //console.log("-------- print new protection that was bought --------");
            //await printProtectionExpiry(_protectionBuyer1);

            console.log("----------- move time forward by 49 days, 1 day before protection expiry and check print that protection has not expired. --------");
            await moveForwardTimeByDays(49);
            await printProtectionExpiry(_protectionBuyer1);


            console.log("----------- move time forward by 1 more day to protection expiry date and missed payment date. check print that protection has expired. --------");
            await moveForwardTimeByDays(1);
            await printProtectionExpiry(_protectionBuyer1);

            console.log("----------- attacker trigger assessStates() to lock up excess capital including for expiring protections. --------");
            await defaultStateManager.assessStates();

            console.log("----------- check locked capital includes excess amount for expired protection, which is incorrect. --------");
            let lockedCapitals = await defaultStateManager.getLockedCapitals(protectionPool.address,_lendingPool2);
            console.log("    lockedCapitals[0].locked = %s", lockedCapitals[0].locked);
            console.log("    lockedCapitals[0].amount = %s", lockedCapitals[0].amount);
            console.log("    expired _protectionAmount = %s", _protectionAmount);
            
            // this should pass but failed and is incorrect because the protection included expired protection amount
            expect(BigNumber.from(_protectionAmount)).to.be.not.eq(lockedCapitals[0].amount);

          });

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Make accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()  and assessState()/assessStateBatch() atomic, so that any state transition for lending pool will ensure expired protections are removed.