0xbrett8571

high

# Risk of Arithmetic Overflow in "calculateKAndLambda" function of "AccruedPremiumCalculator" library.

## Summary
See details, please.

## Vulnerability Detail
An arithmetic overflow may occur if `_exp1` is close to 1, and the value returned by `Constants.SCALE_18_DECIMALS_INT` is not large enough to prevent the division from exceeding the maximum value of `int256`.

The `calculateKAndLambda` function performs mathematical operations that may result in an arithmetic overflow, this is a potential issue as it can cause unexpected behavior of the contract, and in some cases, it can be exploited to execute attacks on the contract.

In the `calculateKAndLambda` function, the `_lambda` calculation may result in an overflow if the risk factor is high, as it multiplies the risk factor by 100 before dividing by a constant. 
If `_riskFactor` is greater than 2^256/100, the multiplication will overflow, additionally, the `K` calculation may also result in an overflow if `_exp1` is close to 1.

## Impact
A hacker could use this chance to manipulate the calculated accrued premium and pricing parameters of the protection purchases.
Incorrect calculation may lead to incorrect prices for the protection, and Incorrect calculation may lead to financial losses for users.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/AccruedPremiumCalculator.sol#L85

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
First, ensure that the inputs used in calculations are within a safe range, and also divide some values by 10^18 to reduce the chance of overflow.

For instance, in the `calculateKAndLambda` function, update the calculation of `_lambda` to divide the risk factor by 10^18 before multiplying by 100, also, divide the `_protectionPremium` input by 10^18 before passing it to the calculation of K.

Furthermore, we can add a check at the beginning of the function to ensure that the input values are within a safe range.
For example, check that the `_protectionPremium`, `_protectionDurationInDays`, `_currentLeverageRatio`, `_leverageRatioFloor`, `_leverageRatioCeiling`, `_leverageRatioBuffer`, `_curvature`, and `_minCarapaceRiskPremiumPercent` are all less than or equal to 2^256 - 1 divided by 10^18.