jkoppel

medium

# Adding a lending pool with the wrong protocol cannot be undone

## Summary

If an operator adds a lending pool with the wrong protocol, then that lending pool can never be properly added to the ProtectionPool. Furthermore, the mistake can brick much of the ProtectionPool's operation.

## Vulnerability Detail

Here is the relevant portion of ReferenceLendingPools._addReferenceLendingPool:

```solidity
  function _addReferenceLendingPool(
    address _lendingPoolAddress,
    LendingProtocol _lendingPoolProtocol,
    uint256 _protectionPurchaseLimitInDays
  ) internal {
   ...

    if (_isReferenceLendingPoolAdded(_lendingPoolAddress)) {
      revert ReferenceLendingPoolAlreadyAdded(_lendingPoolAddress);
    }
   
   ...

    /// add the underlying lending pool to this basket
    referenceLendingPools[_lendingPoolAddress] = ReferenceLendingPoolInfo({
      protocol: _lendingPoolProtocol,
      addedTimestamp: block.timestamp,
      protectionPurchaseLimitTimestamp: _protectionPurchaseLimitTimestamp
    });
    lendingPools.push(_lendingPoolAddress);

    ...
}
```

We see here that, if the reference pool is already added, it cannot be re-added. The protocol gets saved in its ReferenceLendingPoolInfo data structure.

If this parameter is incorrect, it cannot be changed.

Further, any call that tries to invoke the corresponding ILendingProtocolAdapter is likely to revert. This includes ReferenceLendingPools._getLendingPoolStatus, which is called from DefaultStateManager._assessStates. This effectively bricks the entire protection pool.

## Impact

A mistake adding a lending pool can brick the entire protection pool.

Note: I am aware that admin errors are usually excluded in Sherlock competitions. However, this is not a one-time setup problem: this is a problem that can occur every single time a new lending pool is added, with permanent consequences. I therefore believe it should be counted as a Medium. I make here the same argument that obront made on multiple issues in his audit of Blueberry.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ReferenceLendingPools.sol#L259

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Make it possible to modify an added lending pool.