SPYBOY

high

# Depositer funds can Stuck in contract .

## Summary
In ProtectionPool.sol there is a function ` _requestWithdrawal()` which requests the withdrawal amount. according to that function after requesting withdrawal user can withdraw after n+2 cycles (n = cycle while requesting).  But according to the function `withdraw()` if that withdrawal cycle passes user can't withdraw his deposit. Because it checks whether the current cycle contains an entry to withdraw. if withdrawal cycle passes user can't withdraw funds

POC:
1) bob deposited his token using the function `deposit()`.
2) now bob requests withdraw amounts using the function `_requestWithdrawal()`.  at cycle = 1 . now bob can withdraw his deposit within or after cycle = 3 (according to the rule).
3) for some reason bob is not able to withdraw his amount in cycle 3. he lets cycle 3 pass by and  then bob will try to withdraw in cycle 4 but he will not be able to withdraw because his entry is not there in cycle 4.  

Related bug on immunefi:
https://zzykxx.com/2023/02/02/the-bug-that-codearena-missed-,-twice/?s=08

## Vulnerability Detail

## Impact
User funds will be stuck in a contract for more time. if the leverage ratio increases there is more chance that he may suffer from loss. 

## Code Snippet
_requestWithdrawal() : 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L208-L214
withdraw():
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L226-L275
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Create a mechanism to withdraw.  if the cycle passes.