monrel

medium

# Unlocked capital should not be claimable to sellers that have not requested a withdrawal

## Summary

All sellers are forced to withdraw capital that have been unlocked. Even seller that had not requested a withdrawal end up being able to  withdraw capital whenever a lenderpool is unlocked.

## Vulnerability Detail

Seller's capital is locked when payments are missed. The capital is then unlocked after 2 payment terms if the payment is made during that time. 

All unlocked capital is then distributed to sellers even if the had not requested a withdrawal. Withdrawals are supposed to only happen at the earliest at the end of the cycle after a request for a withdrawal has been made but this assumption is broken here.

## Impact

An important factor for protection buyers is he amount of capital exist in relation the protected amount. The premium amount they are ready to pay is dependent on the insolvency risk of ProtectionPool. Deposits are supposed to stay in the Protection pool at least until the end of the next cycle. From the documentation: 

"Let’s use an example where the cycle duration is 90 days. Imagine that Buyer A buys protection at day 100 (cycle 2) for 170 days. She can see how much capital will stay during her protection duration (the remaining days in cycle 2 and all the days in cycle 3) from two pieces of information. First, all the capital deposited in cycle 2 will stay in cycle 3. Second, the amount of withdrawal requests made before cycle 1 (only in cycle 1 in this case)."

The assumption that capital that is deposited in cycle 2 will stay until the end of cycle 3 is not correct due to the outlined vulnerability.

## Code Snippet
The claiming functionality does not take into account `withdrawlRequests`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L427-L445

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

The unlocked capital should only be withdrawable if the capital was locked during an open period that the seller had a `withdrawalRequests >= claimableAmount`

