Udsen

high

# INPUT VALIDATION SHOULD BE PERFORMED FOR THE `_cycleParams` PASSED INTO THE `registerProtectionPool()` FUNCTION

## Summary

In order to register a protection pool `registerProtectionPool()` function is called with `_cycleParams` as one of the input parameters in the `ProtectionPoolCycleManager.sol` contract. But the input value of `_cycleParams` is not checked against the `0` value.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `_cycleParams` is not checked for the `0` value inside the function. Hence the `0` can be passed in as both the `_cycleParams.openCycleDuration` and `_cycleParams.cycleDuration` value. The function checks for the `_cycleParams.openCycleDuration > _cycleParams.cycleDuration` condition. But if `0` is passed in for both parameters the condition will pass and transaction will continue. Hence there is no explicit check for the `0` value of passed in for `_cycleParams.openCycleDuration` and `_cycleParams.cycleDuration` values.

## Impact

If the `0` value is passed in for `_cycleParams.openCycleDuration` and `_cycleParams.cycleDuration` values via the passed in `_cycleParams` parameter, same `0` values will be assigned as the `poolCycle.params` for the new cycle started. So this will create a cycle index without any duration which will not make any sense. Thus making it impossible to withdraw underlying tokens from the protection pools. Hence the underlying tokens of the depositors could be locked for that particular cycle index. Hence new request for withdrawal will need to be submitted to withdraw their underlying tokens in a future cycle index.

## Code Snippet

```solidity
  function registerProtectionPool(
    address _poolAddress,
    ProtectionPoolCycleParams calldata _cycleParams
  ) external payable override onlyContractFactory {
    ProtectionPoolCycle storage poolCycle = protectionPoolCycles[_poolAddress];

    if (poolCycle.currentCycleStartTime > 0) {
      revert ProtectionPoolAlreadyRegistered(_poolAddress);
    }

    /// Cycle duration must be greater than open cycle duration
    if (_cycleParams.openCycleDuration > _cycleParams.cycleDuration) {
      revert InvalidCycleDuration(_cycleParams.cycleDuration);
    } 
      
    /// Store cycle params and start a new cycle for newly registered pool
    poolCycle.params = _cycleParams;
    _startNewCycle(_poolAddress, poolCycle, 0);
  }
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/ProtectionPoolCycleManager.sol#L73-L91

## Tool used

VS Code and Manual Review

## Recommendation

Conduct the value check for `0` value for both `_cycleParams.openCycleDuration` and `_cycleParams.cycleDuration`, before the new cycle is started.

Add following code snippet to the `registerProtectionPool()` function by creating a new error `ZeroCycleDuration()`.

```solidity
    if (_cycleParams.openCycleDuration == 0 &&  _cycleParams.cycleDuration == 0) {
      revert ZeroCycleDuration(_cycleParams.openCycleDuration, _cycleParams.cycleDuration);
    } 
```
