yixxas

medium

# Overflow attack on withdrawalCycle.totalSTokenRequested and prevent withdrawal

## Summary
An overflow on `withdrawalCycle.totalSTokenRequested` will prevent withdrawals from occuring. While it is a low probability of due to uint256.max being a huge number, impact is severe should it happen since withdrawals will no longer be possible.

## Vulnerability Detail
Any user with sToken can make a request for withdrawal. Once a request is made, `withdrawalCycle.totalSTokenRequested` will be increased by the additionally requested amount.

However, as the only requirement for requesting withdrawal is that user must have the corresponding sToken, it is hence possible for a malicious user to request withdrawal, transfer the sToken to another address and repeat it on multiple addresses. This will create an abnormally high `withdrawalCycle.totalSTokenRequested` amount that even exceeds total sToken minted.

In theory, it is possible for a single sToken to DOS withdrawal. In practice however, a user has to make X number of transactions, such that X * sTokenBalance >= uint256.max. While this is unlikely, impact is severe.

## Impact
A low probability occurance of completely locking funds in the contract as withdrawal is blocked.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1091

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
In our sToken implementation, consider preventing a transfer of sToken amount that is more than the currently requested amount. 
