jkoppel

high

# Amount of capital locked can vastly exceed the amount remaining under protection

## Summary

If a buyer acquires multiple protection positions on a single pool, and the borrower repays the buyer partially and then misses a payment, an amount of capital can be locked up equal to the buyer's original protection, even though his principal has decreased.

## Vulnerability Detail

Scenario:

1. Buyer has $10k in a lending pool
2. Buyer buys two protection positions on the pool, each for $5k
3. Borrower pays back $5k. Buyer now only has a remaining principal of $5k in the pool.
4. Borrower misses a payment
5. Buggy code in ProtectionPool.lockCapital() locks up $10k instead of $5k for the buyer's positions

Here is the offending code

```solidity
    for (uint256 i; i < _length; ) {
      /// Get protection info from the storage
      uint256 _protectionIndex = activeProtectionIndexes.at(i);
      ProtectionInfo storage protectionInfo = protectionInfos[_protectionIndex];

      /// Calculate remaining principal amount for a loan protection in the lending pool
      uint256 _remainingPrincipal = poolInfo
        .referenceLendingPools
        .calculateRemainingPrincipal(
          _lendingPoolAddress,
          protectionInfo.buyer,
          protectionInfo.purchaseParams.nftLpTokenId
        );

      /// Locked amount is minimum of protection amount and remaining principal
      uint256 _protectionAmount = protectionInfo
        .purchaseParams
        .protectionAmount;
      uint256 _lockedAmountPerProtection = _protectionAmount <
        _remainingPrincipal
        ? _protectionAmount
        : _remainingPrincipal;

      _lockedAmount += _lockedAmountPerProtection;

      unchecked {
        ++i;
      }
    }
```

The problem is that this locks up an amount up to the buyer's remaining principal in the pool, repeated for every protection position a buyer has on the pool. So, in the scenario above, even though the buyer only had $5k principal left, his two $5k positions each caused the full $5k to be locked up.

While this is another issue caused by multiple positions on the same pool, it is separate from https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace-jkoppel/issues/5 . That issue involves buyers, likely maliciously, getting more protection on a pool than they have principal. This can be caused by an honest buyer who does not have more protection on the pool than principal, and many ways of fixing that other issue will still leave this issue remaining.

## Impact

The impact of this depends on the not-yet-implemented default payout logic. I am marking this high mostly as an invitation for the judges to seriously consider the potential impact. It would be very sensible for the default payout logic to pay out all protection positions on the assumption this will deplete the relevant locked capital. But, because of this issue, that would result in some capital being permanently locked in the contract.

If the capital becomes unlocked, then it will become claimable by sellers in accordance with their share, bounding the amount of time it is lost to one payment period.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L383

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Either calculate capital to lock correctly or consider banning multiple positions by the same seller in the same pool.