chaduke

high

# Malicious sellers can claim more unlocked capital than they deserve.

## Summary
Malicious sellers can claim more unlocked capital than they deserve. They can do that by front-running ``lockCapital()`` (actually front-running ``assetStates()`` due to ``assessStates() -> _assessState() -> _moveFromActiveToLockedState() -> _protectionPool.lockCapital()``)  to deposit more underlyingtokens to boost their shares but withdraw after the execution of ``lockCapital`` (sandwich attack). In this way, they can claim a larger portion of the unlocked capital than their peers. 


## Vulnerability Detail
We show how a malicious seller, Bob, can claim more unlocked capital than their peers by sandwich attacking ``lockCapital()``:

1) A seller can call ``claimUnlockedCapital()`` to claim unlocked capital.

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L427-L445](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L427-L445)

2) The amount he can claim is determined by function ``calculateAndClaimUnlockedCapital()``, which calls ``_calculateClaimableAmount()`` to determine the amount that the seller can claim for a particular lending pool.

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L158-L201](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L158-L201)

4) ``_calculateClaimableAmount()`` calculates the claimable amount for each lending pool over all LockedCaptitals. This amount is proportional to the total shares of the seller. Therefore, to claim more, all one needs to do is each time capital will be locked, the attacker just needs to increase his shares just for that snapshot, but withdraws the shares quickly afterwards. 

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L454-L521](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L454-L521)

5) Bob made some preparation for the attack: for the purpose of discussion, suppose the exchange rate is 1/1. Bob deposited 100,000 underlying tokens to get 100,000 shares. In addition, he  made a request to withdraw 100,000 shares for each cycle, so in this way, he can always withdraw the 100,000 shares in future cycle. 

6) Bob sandwich attacks  each ``lockCapital()`` by front-running it with the ``deposit()`` transaction (which is executable in an open state). He deposits 100,000 underlying tokens to get another 100,000 shares, as a result, his shares is doubled. After ``lockCapital()`` is executed, he calls ``withdraw()`` immediately (he can do so since he has requested this two cycles back) to withdraw the 100,000 shares. However, the snapshot taken by ``lockCapital`` would record  that he had 200,000 shares. 

7) If the capital is unlocked later on, then Bob can claim double his proportion although he only maintains a 100,000 shares balance, he claims as if he had 200,000 shares each time.


## Impact
Malicious sellers can claim more unlocked capital than they deserve.


## Code Snippet
See above

## Tool used
VScode

Manual Review



## Recommendation
- short term, - No deposit() should be allowed in the cycle of ``LockCapital()``
- Long term: consider not just a snapshot, but sth similar to TWAV (time-weighted average price): 





