ctf_sec

high

# The GoldFinch adapter code would break if underlying GoldFinch pool use a legacy version of the CreditLine implementation

## Summary

The GoldFinch adapter code would break if underlying GoldFinch pool use a legacy version of the CreditLine implementation

## Vulnerability Detail

In the current implementation, when integrating with the GoldFinch lending pool credit line contract, the code below is used:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/external/goldfinch/ICreditLine.sol#L17

```solidity
 * @dev Version 2 of this interface is {IV2CreditLine}
 * @dev Goldfinch's credit line interface that represents the agreement between Backers and a Borrower.
 * Includes the terms of the loan, as well as the current accounting state, such as interest owed.
 * Copied from: https://github.com/goldfinch-eng/mono/blob/14872db0fce441ef226e646bdb05843a6f48a9b5/packages/protocol/contracts/interfaces/ICreditLine.sol
```

the version 2 of the GoldFinch credit line is used.

However, if the underlying GoldFinch lending pool use a legacy version of the credit line contract, the code in GoldFinch adapter would break, for example, the code just check if the lending pool payment is late by calling isLate() from the GoldFinch lending pool credit contract

```solidity
  /**
   * @dev Checks if the tranched pool(lending pool) is late
   * @param _lendingPoolAddress address of tranched pool
   */
  function _isLendingPoolLate(address _lendingPoolAddress)
    internal
    view
    returns (bool)
  {
    return _getCreditLine(_lendingPoolAddress).isLate();
  }
```

However, if the underlying lending pool use a legacy version of the credit line, the legacy version does not have isLate() function implemented, the isLate() function would obvious revert.

The legacy version is still being actively used in active gold finch lending pool.

We can go to this page to see a list of lending pool

https://dev.goldfinch.finance/docs/reference/contracts/core/TranchedPool

We can click [Almavest Basket #4](https://etherscan.io/address/0xe6C30756136e07eB5268c3232efBFBe645c1BA5A), a actively used lending protocol.

and check the credit line contract used by the contract above

https://etherscan.io/address/0x2d1D3BB16C582ff0cc0ba20f2bFE36523ec52C42#readContract,

We can see that a legacy version of the credit line contract is used, there is no isLate method in the credit line contract, calling isLate() would revert and the Carapace state manage would failed to correctly assess the state of the lending pool.

In fact, if we check [Almavest Basket #5](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1d596d28a7923a22aa013b0e7082bba23daa656b), same issue applies.

## Impact

Carapace state manage would failed to correctly assess the state of the lending pool if the underlying credit line is not creditline V2 contract, then the protection seller can just see down and collect premium from the protection buyer because if the state of the lending pool is not assessed correctly, the protection would never worry about losing their fund when the pool state goes to default.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L78-L88

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L279-L290

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

We recommend the implementing logic to make sure if the lending pool credit line contract is a legacy version, the state manager can still access the state of the lending pool correctly.
