0Kage

medium

# Delay in executing `accruePremiumAndExpireProtections` cron can result in artificially high premiums for protection buyers

## Summary
Protocol docs say that a `cron` job will be executed for critical operations such as `accruePremiumAndExpireProtections`. Frequency & mode of execution seems undecided at this point as per the docs. While all cron operations can be front-run (and I've listed previous issues on this), another risk of relying on automatic cron operations is delays (server downtimes, high congestion of block-space leading to higher gas fees etc).

Such delays can be costly, specially when operations such as `accruePremiumAndExpireProtections` impact mission critical parameters such as `leverage ratio`. One such scenario is when a large protection expires, any delay in executing `accruePremiumAndExpireProtections` cron can force new protection buyers to pay much higher premium than they actually should.

This can prevent new buyers from stepping in quickly to correct supply-demand imbalance.

## Vulnerability Detail
When a large protection expires at a given timestamp, `totalProtection` should drop & this increases leverage ratio of the pool. Higher leverage ratios would mean lower premiums for new protection buyers. Low enough premiums will incentivize new buyers to quickly compensate for loss of one large buyer.  

Note that `totalProtection` is decreased only when this function executes. 
```solidity
  function accruePremiumAndExpireProtections(address[] memory _lendingPools)
    external
    override
  {
    ....
    if (_totalProtectionRemoved > 0) {
      totalProtection -= _totalProtectionRemoved;
    }
 }
```

Any delays in `cron` job would mean that any new buyer coming in is paying a much higher premium than she actually show. Underlying supply-demand dynamics should justify a much lower price - this price can never be discovered so long as cron job is successfully executed.

## Impact
Buyers pay elevated premium to open a new position - such price is not justified by underlying pool balances.


## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L352

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Penalizing buyers for delays in cron execution is unfair for buyers. It is unclear from the docs as to how the protocol will manage operational risks associated with these crons. Not able to make a specific recommendation with the information given.

