rvierdiiev

high

# Buyer of tokens can't claim unlocked capital

## Summary
Buyer of tokens can't claim unlocked capital
## Vulnerability Detail
Suppose that some user has 1000 sTokens and once lending pool became late in payment, then `lockCapital` was called and some part of underlying were collected to repay protections.
Then user decided to sell all his tokens to new owner. So now new owner has 1000 tokens.
After some time payment was done to lending pool, so it became active again and locked capital was marked as unlocked.

At this time users can call `claimUnlockedCapital` function, which will calculate the amount of funds they can receive and send it to caller. This function calculates capital [for msg.sender](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L434). It uses snapshot of balances, when capital locking was done in order to find out how many tokens user had at that timestamp.

The problem that the previous owner that already sold tokens will be able to call `claimUnlockedCapital` and receive payment for his 1000 tokens and new owner will not be able to claim his 1000 tokens. But i believe that he should be able to do this and new owner should not, as he sold tokens and the price includes possibility that tokens will be unlocked.
## Impact
New owner loses funds when pool becomes active again.
## Code Snippet
Provided above
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Think about the way how to track such situation. Maybe in case if transfer is done, when pool is late, then snapshot data should be modified.