0Kage

high

# Protection buyers can front-run lending pool state updates to buy protection on pools that have just transitioned from `Active` to `LateWithinGracePeriod` state

## Summary

Protocol docs state that a `Cron Job` will run daily to execute `assetStates` on `DefaultStateManager`. `assesStates` is responsible for updating state of lending pool, active, late or default.

A protection buyer who knows the next payment date of lending pool can front-run this cron job & buy protection right after a lending pool transitions from `active` to `LateWithinGracePeriod` status. Protection sellers will end up taking exposure to high risk loans.

## Vulnerability Detail

To buy protection, users call `buyProtection` that inturn calls `verifyProtection` on Pool Helper. This function does 2 checks

1. Checks if protection duration is greater than minimum duration & lesser than next period end cycle
2. Checks if underlying lending pool is active - [`_verifyLendingPoolIsActive`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L422) reverts if lending pool is either late or late but within grace period or defaulted

Protection buyer can access the [`isLendingPoolLateWithinGracePeriod`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L94) in the `GoldfinchAdapter` contract to check if lending pool, for the first time, transitions from `Active` to `LateWithinGracePeriod`

User can easily calculate the next payment date by combining `getPaymentPeriodInDays` and `getLatestPaymentTimestamp` functions in `GoldfinchAdapter`. On this day, protection buyer just has to front run the `assessState` execution & buy protection for his entire position if lending pool goes into `late` state.

Since this transaction gets executed before state update, `_verifyLendingPoolIsActive` function allows protection purchase without reverting. Protocol sellers end up picking up huge risk that they were never supposed to.

## Impact

All transactions will be one-sided - there will be a rush of malicious protection buyers covering their risky loans by exploiting the new state update. Relying on a cron job is risky in such scenarios

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L422

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L94

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation

Every `buyProtection` call should mandatorily call `assessStateBatch` function in `DefaultStateManager` by sending the specific lending pool (`_pools` array should have length 1 to save gas for users) for which protection is being bought. This call should be before `__verifyLendingPoolIsActive` call to ensure latest pool status is being used for verification
