0x52

high

# Protection buyer can game default protection by never redeeming principal from underlying LP token

## Summary

When locking tokens in the event of a default, each LP token is valued via an adapter. For the GoldFinch this valuation can be inflated by never redeeming any principal from the token. After the token has been valued the holder can double dip, by redeeming the principal from GoldFinch and then redeeming their insurance for the value of the token.

## Vulnerability Detail

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L170-L177

When calculating the remaining principal by subtracting the principal redeemed from the initial principal. As long as the token holder never redeems then their token will always be valued at the entire initial principal even if they have principal that can be claimed. This can be abused to double dip. When a default happens the insurance will entitle them to a payment for the initial payment. After their token has been valued, they can claim their redeemable interest as well as the insurance.

## Impact

Protection buyer can double dip and take more insurance than expected

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/adapters/GoldfinchAdapter.sol#L153-L179

## Tool used

ChatGPT

## Recommendation

Query the GoldFinch pool via redeemableInterestAndPrincipal to determine the amount of principal that's redeemable and remove that from the value of the token.