jkoppel

high

# Can shut down ProtectionPool late payment logic by dusting purchase of small protections

## Summary

ProtectionPool.lockCapital() contains a loop through all active protection indices of a lending pool. Users are able to add a large number of protections for 0 or tiny amounts of capital and cause this to get an OUT OF GAS error. This will in turn shut down DefaultStateManager._assessStates whenever any lending pool in a protection pool is entering a late period.

## Vulnerability Detail

Consider the loop at https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L373-L383

```solidity
    /// Get indexes of active protection for a lending pool from the storage
    EnumerableSetUpgradeable.UintSet
      storage activeProtectionIndexes = lendingPoolDetail
        .activeProtectionIndexes;

    /// Iterate all active protections and calculate total locked amount for this lending pool
    /// 1. calculate remaining principal amount for each loan protection in the lending pool.
    /// 2. for each loan protection, lockedAmt = min(protectionAmt, remainingPrincipal)
    /// 3. total locked amount = sum of lockedAmt for all loan protections
    uint256 _length = activeProtectionIndexes.length();
    for (uint256 i; i < _length; ) {
        ....
```

This will OUT OF GAS when the number of active protections is too high.

lockCapital() is transitively called from the main loop of DefaultStateManager._assessStates: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L332

From this, we see that, if anyone has dusted a lending pool with a large number, and that lending pool enters the late payment period, assessState state transitions will be broken for the entire protection pool.

On its own, this can only be done by someone who has lent to the underlying lending pool. Note that this is not a significant bar if the underlying lending protocol is promiscuous in whom it accepts as a lender. Someone could lend a tiny amount of capital to this reference pool, or perhaps even to the Goldfinch Senior Pool, for the sake of becoming eligible to perform this attack.

Additionally, there is another vulnerability that allows literally anyone to buy a protection for a pool so long as the protection is for 0 tokens. This allows literally anyone to carry out this attack. See https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace-jkoppel/issues/3 .

## Impact

Griefers can shut down state updates for a protection pool when any of its underlying lending pools has a late payment.

Especially when combined with the vulnerability allowing literally anyone to do this, this attack can be carried out by a borrower who is about to default on a loan, holding a lender's protection hostage in order to extort terms out of them. ("You either forgive my loan, or I'll both default and make your protections on this and all your other loans disappear.")

## Code Snippet

Offending loop:  https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L373-L383

Adding to protection set: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L887

There is no check for minimum capital in a protection.


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Add a minimum to the amount of protection bought, capping the number of protections that can be bought.