jkoppel

high

# Can shut down premium accrual in any payment pool by dusting with small protection purchases

## Summary

ProtectionPool._accruePremiumAndExpireProtections() contains a loop through all active protections. Users are able to add a large number of protections for 0 or tiny amounts of capital and cause this to get an OUT OF GAS error, thereby shutting down interest accrual.

## Vulnerability Detail

ProtectionPool._accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()  contains a loop

```solidity
    uint256[] memory _protectionIndexes = lendingPoolDetail
      .activeProtectionIndexes
      .values();

    /// Iterate through all active protection indexes for the lending pool
    uint256 _length = _protectionIndexes.length;
    for (uint256 j; j < _length; ) {
```

Users can make this array very large, and thereby cause this function to OUT OF GAS. 

ProtectionPool._accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()  is called from ProtectionPool.accruePremiumAndExpireProtections() , which loops over all lending pools. It thus becomes very easy to shut down premium accrual for an entire protection pool.

Ordinarily, any lender can do this by purchasing a large amount of tiny protections. Note that a lender not interested in purchasing protection has no incentive not to do this. Further, the underlying lending protocol may allow anyone, including a borrower, to become a lender for a tiny amount of capital.

But combined with https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace-jkoppel/issues/3 , literally anyone can do this by buying protection for 0 tokens.

## Impact

Anyone can shut down premium accrual for any protection pool

## Code Snippet

Offending for-loop: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L975-L981

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Require a minimum size of purchased protections.
