unforgiven

high

# unbound loops in the code which can cause high gas usage and break the protocol and fund would be locked

## Summary
there are a lot of unbound loops in contracts logics the loop through lending pools or bought protections and as their size increase code would use more gas and it may become impossible to perform the logics. in most case code have loop inside loop which make this more serious.

## Vulnerability Detail
This is `_accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()` code in ProtectionPool:
```solidity
  function _accruePremiumAndExpireProtections(
    LendingPoolDetail storage lendingPoolDetail,
    uint256 _lastPremiumAccrualTimestamp,
    uint256 _latestPaymentTimestamp
  )
    internal
    returns (
      uint256 _accruedPremiumForLendingPool,
      uint256 _totalProtectionRemoved
    )
  {
    /// Get all active protection indexes for the lending pool
    uint256[] memory _protectionIndexes = lendingPoolDetail
      .activeProtectionIndexes
      .values();

    /// Iterate through all active protection indexes for the lending pool
    uint256 _length = _protectionIndexes.length;
    for (uint256 j; j < _length; ) {
      uint256 _protectionIndex = _protectionIndexes[j];
      ProtectionInfo storage protectionInfo = protectionInfos[_protectionIndex];

      /// Verify & accrue premium for the protection and
      /// if the protection is expired, then mark it as expired
........
.......
```
As you can see code loops through all the protections and perform logic for them and as there is no maximum limit for number of protections in each (protection, lending) pair, so the gas usage can become high and calls to this functions won't be possible because of gas error. because running these logics are necessary for protocol then protocol would be in broken state and users funds would be locked.
the issue exists in most of the logics specially those logics that should be performed periodically. this was just a sample and any loop in the contract logic should be bounded specially those that are related to user actions as users may have a lot of actions with contracts like buying a lot of protections.

## Impact
the gas usage can become so high that it won't be possible to call protocol contract and users funds would be locked forever.
attacker can cause this intentionally by buying a lot of protection with small amounts.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L978-L984

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
have maximum limit for each loop iterations by adding maximum limit for array list in the contract.