jkoppel

medium

# Protection too expensive when some capital is locked

## Summary

The leverage ratio is computed as a ratio of unlocked capital to total protections. This means that each protection position which has locked capital is effectively counted twice: once to lock up capital, and once again to decrease the leverage ratio. This can lead to situations where a pool is very well capitalized to sell more protection, but cannot do so.

## Vulnerability Detail

Consider: Pool has $1.1 million in deposits, and $1 million in protection positions. All pools have late payments, and so $1 million is locked. Pool now has $100k in unallocated deposits, but its leverage ratio is $100k/$1.1M ~ 0.09. Depending on the leverage floor, protection will either be really expensive or cannot be bought at all, even though the pool is well-capitalized.

Compare: If all pools defaulted and the $1M was lost, then the pool would have $100k in deposits and $0 in protection positions, and protection would be very cheap.  The situation with locked capital should be treated similarly.

## Impact

Protection is very expensive or impossible in some situations where it should be cheap.

## Code Snippet

Note that lockCapital() decreases totalSTokenUnderlying but does not modify totalProtections. These are the two variables used to compute the leverage ratio. See https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L357

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Do not count protections which are locking up capital when computing the leverage ratio.