jkoppel

high

# Once per cycle, seller can greatly multiply earnings when interest accrues during open period

## Summary

By keeping a maximal withdraw request always engaged, whenever interest accrual occurs during a pool's open period, a protection seller can siphon money from a protection pool by depositing immediately before interest accrual, and withdrawing immediately after.

## Vulnerability Detail

There is no penalty to a withdraw request. Sellers are thus incentivized to always put in the maximum withdraw request, enabling them to do a full withdraw during any open period.

Further, deposits can occur at any time, so long as the leverage ratio does not become excessive.

This enables the following strategy:

1. Seller puts $1000 in a protection pool, and then submits a withdraw request for $1000. Every protection cycle, they renew their withdraw request.
2. Seller waits until the first open period where they can withdraw.
3. Seller front-runs a call to accruePremiumAndExpireProtections by depositing another $1000 and upgrading their withdraw request to $2k
4. The accruePremiumAndExpireProtections call happens.
5. Seller immediately withdraws $1k, retrieving more of the underlying token than they put in
6. Two cycles later, seller does this again. This time, they deposit $2k, put in a withdraw request for $3k, and then immediately withdraw $2k after the call to accruePremiumAndExpireProtections.
7. Two cycles later, seller does this again. This time, they deposit $3k, put in a withdraw request for $4k, and then immediately withdraw $2k after the call to accruePremiumAndExpireProtections.
8. Etc

After 9 repetitions, once per cycle, the seller is able to earn premiums on $10k of deposits once per cycle, while only keeping $1k of deposits in the pool. If the underlying lending pools have infrequent payments and a significant fraction of these payments fall within the protection pool's open period, the seller can greatly multiply their earnings beyond what it should be given the risk they take on.

Note that the above attack only acts on the odd cycles. But the seller can independently do the same thing on the even cycles.

## Impact

Sellers can multiply their earnings beyond what it should be given the risk they take on.

## Code Snippet

While this is a protocol error combining behavior from many parts of the contract, the most relevant portions are in withdraw and requestWithdraw

In withdraw, we see that the amount that can be withdrawn is based only on the request in the current cycle, i.e.: something set two cycles ago.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L242

```solidity
    uint256 _sTokenRequested = withdrawalCycle.withdrawalRequests[msg.sender];
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L1075

```solidity
    uint256 _withdrawalCycleIndex = _currentCycleIndex + 2;

    WithdrawalCycleDetail storage withdrawalCycle = withdrawalCycleDetails[
      _withdrawalCycleIndex
    ];
```

The independence of these is what makes it possible to have a withdraw request that is much higher than the amount actually deposited.

However, even if that is fixed, they will still be able to do a weaker version of this, at most doubling their share of premiums once per cycle.

The issue is that interest is accrued in discrete timesteps: no interest is accrued except when the underlying pool receives a payment. See https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L994

If interest accrued continuously instead, then the attack would be much much weaker. If it was accrued every day, and the issue with being able to deposit+withdraw many times their deposits was removed, then this sandwhiching attack could at most give them one day's worth of extra premium once per cycle. Whereas, if the underlying reference pools receive payments only once a month, then this attack could give someone one extra month's worth of premium once per cycle.


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

When withdrawing, change future withdraw requests so that the amount requested never exceeds the amount currently deposited.

Make interest accrue continuously rather than in discrete steps based on the last payment time of a pool.