Allarious

high

# `DefaultStateManager`'s `_assessState` can identify consecutive `late` states as `default` incorrectly

## Summary
When `DefaultStateManager`'s `_assessState` is called two times in a row in two different `late` periods, it identifies the lending pool as defaulted incorrectly. This can be an attack vector from protection buyer to the lending pool to claim protection while no position is defaulted.

## Vulnerability Detail
`_assessState` is responsible for state transition of the underlying pools, and keeping the `DefaultStateManager`'s data in sync with the actual pools. It locks funds if an underlying pool goes to the `late` state for at least grace period, and then releases them after the state goes back to active. However, an attacker can abuse a pool that is not updated for some time and cause it to mark a pool as default while it just entered the `late` state for the second time in a row.
The attack would go like this:

(1) Whenever an underlying pool goes into the late state, the funds are locked and the `lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp` is set to `block.timestamp`.
(2) Imagine the underlying pool is paid back before it defaults, and goes back to the active state. In this case, if `_assessState` is not called at least once during the active state, the pool will be open to attacks.
(3) After an active state, the pool might again go into the `late` state, this can cause the `_assessState` to wrongfully consider this pool defaulted, since the check below passes, and the pool is in still in the late state.

```solidity
        if (
          block.timestamp >
          (lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp +
            _getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds(poolState, _lendingPool))
        ) {
          .
          .
          .
          /// State transition 3: Late -> Defaulted
          else if (_currentStatus == LendingPoolStatus.Late) {
            /// Update the current status of the lending pool to Active
            lendingPoolStateDetail.currentStatus = LendingPoolStatus.Defaulted;

            // Default state transition will be implemented in the next version of the protocol
            // _moveFromLockedToDefaultedState(poolState, _lendingPool);
          }
        }
```

The first check passes since `block.timestamp > (lendingPoolStateDetail.lateTimestamp + _getTwoPaymentPeriodsInSeconds(poolState, _lendingPool))` and then the state defaults.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/DefaultStateManager.sol#L342-L364

## Impact
Protection buyer can claim the protection for a pool while it is not defaulted and he has lost no funds.

## Code Snippet

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
It is nessecary to check the epochs and the index of the cycle from the underlying pool, if they provide any. If the underlying pool does not provide such data, the pool has to develop a system that only allows protection buyers to claim their protection within a certain period. This period should be less than the `Active` part of the cycle.