jkoppel

high

# Buyer gets free protection during renewal period

## Summary

By constantly renewing a protection position at the last possible second, a buyer only needs to pay for protection on a fraction of days, and will be able to buy protection right before a missed payment.

## Vulnerability Detail

In ProtectionPools.renewProtection, the time of the renewal is set to the time the function is called.

```solidity
    /// Verify that user can buy protection and then create a new protection for renewal
    _verifyAndCreateProtection(
      block.timestamp, // <----- this is the start timestamp of the new protection
      _protectionPurchaseParams,
      _maxPremiumAmount,
      true
    );
```

If the renewal grace period is 2 days, then, since the minimum duration of a renewed protection is only one day (see https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L57 ), the buyer can effectively get full protection for 1/3 the price by repeating the cycle of: buy a protection for 1 day, let it expire, renew 2 days later, buy a protection for 1 day, etc. The buyer only needs to make sure that the protection is on on days the underlying lending pool is expecting payment (or to front-run DefaultStateManager._assessStates to renew immediately before a missed payment).

This is separate from https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace-jkoppel/issues/1 . That issue states that, because buyers can switch renewals between very small and very large protection, they can effectively only pay for protection right before missed payouts. However, even if that issue was fixed, they would still be able to exploit this issue to pay a fraction of what they should.

## Impact

Buyers can get high protection for a fraction of what it should cost.

## Code Snippet

Timestamp of call to renewProtection is used for start time of renewed protection: https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L189

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Set the start timestamp of a renewed protection to the end timestamp of the expired position.
