c7e7eff

high

# c7e7eff - Expired protections accrue premium at their expiration time even when ledning pool is late or in default.

c7e7eff
HIGH

## Summary

The premium accrual for expired protections is calculated over the full term of the protection regardless whether the lending pool is in a late state or even in default.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `ProtectionPool::accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()`  is called daily to accrue all premiums for all non-expired protections for (a list of) the lending pools. 
It gets the latest payment timestamp from the relevant `referenceLendingPools` and the `lastPremiumAccrualTimestamp` . The `ProtectionPoolHelper::verifyAndAccruePremium()` then calculates the accrued premium up to the `_latestPaymentTimestamp` (on the condition that the `_latestPaymentTimestamp` > `_startTimestamp`).

At the expiration of a protection however the `_secondsUntilLatestPayment` is calculated as follows:
```solidity
    if (_protectionExpired) {
        _secondsUntilLatestPayment = _expirationTimestamp - _startTimestamp;
	} else {
        _secondsUntilLatestPayment = _latestPaymentTimestamp - _startTimestamp;
    }
``` 

The `_secondsUntilLatestPayment` is then used to caculate the premium to be accrued from the last accrual timestamp regardless if the lending pool is in late state or even in default.
```solidity
      uint256 _accruedPremiumIn18Decimals = AccruedPremiumCalculator
        .calculateAccruedPremium(
          _secondsUntilLastPremiumAccrual,
          _secondsUntilLatestPayment,
```

This means that as long as there has been one payment since the start of the protection, the premium will be accrued over the full term of the protection when the  `ProtectionPool::accruePremiumAndExpireProtections()` is called the first time after the expiration date of the protection (regardless of the state of the lending pool).

Note that the fact a lending pool is in a locked state does not prevent the acrual. The acrual simply increments the  `totalSTokenUnderlying` thereby claiming a certain portion of the actual underlying ERC20 present in the contract. 

## Impact

Premiums for protections of late and defaulted lending pools will still be (fully) accrued in certain conditions. Sellers would then be able to withdraw more underlying then they are entitled to.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L322-L325
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L990-L994
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L252-L253
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol#L263-L268
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

As the premise is that  premium accrual should anly happen when a payment has been done and there is no guarantee a payment will be done in the future that will cover the period between the last payment and the protection expiration timestamp, it seems logical to not cover that period with a premium. 
```diff
diff --git a/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol b/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol
index a42df4d..c3d3c56 100644
--- a/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol
+++ b/contracts/libraries/ProtectionPoolHelper.sol
@@ -250,7 +250,7 @@ library ProtectionPoolHelper {
       /// if loan protection is expired, then accrue premium till expiration and mark it for removal
       uint256 _secondsUntilLatestPayment;
       if (_protectionExpired) {
-        _secondsUntilLatestPayment = _expirationTimestamp - _startTimestamp;
+        _secondsUntilLatestPayment = _latestPaymentTimestamp - _startTimestamp;
         console.log(
           "Protection expired for amt: %s",
           protectionInfo.purchaseParams.protectionAmount

```

Another solution could be to only accrue the premium on the next payment and delaying marking the protection as expireduntill then, but this would require further code changes.