yixxas

high

# Withdrawals that are made after protections have been bought can result in protocol being undercollateralized

## Summary
Funds that are deposited by end users are used to cover part of the protection amount  bought by those who bought protection. The only restriction on user withdrawal is that it must be requested 2 cycles prior. As a result, users can withdraw on the cycle it is allowed to be withdrawn and increase risk of protocol being unable to pay loan protection.

## Vulnerability Detail
Users can `withdraw()` as long as pool is open, a request 2 cycle prior have been made to do the withdrawal, and user have enough sToken to make the withdrawal. The issue here is that protection can be bought in this same state. It can be bought when pool cycleState is open and when poolPhase is in openState (both sellers and buyers are allowed). Note that this poolPhase once in openState, would remain so across cycles.

In theory, every underlying token can be withdrawn from the protocol if they are all requested to be in this cycle. This would prevent protocol from being able to pay loan protection if a default occurs. 

## Impact
Protocol can reach undercollateralized state as withdrawals can be made after protections are purchased.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L226

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Consider adding an additional state, such that once protection is allowed to be purchased in a cycle, withdraw should be disabled.
