0Kage

high

# Protocol can lock up capital greater than cumulative outstanding principal of buyers

## Summary
I've made an earlier submission stating that a user can buy protection for an amount greater than principal outstanding in lending pool. This is possible by buying protection on smaller amounts multiple times that cumulatively adds up to an amount greater than outstanding principal. Current issue is an extension of the same issue - but this time, vulnerability exists in logic for locking capital.

Just like the protection amount is capped at principal outstanding, locked capital (amount taken from protection sellers capital) also has a cap. Worst case scenario for seller payout can never exceed the cumulative principal of all buyers who bough protection. However, current implementation can lead to scenarios where total locked capital exceeds total remaining principal of active protection buyers

`lockCapital` function does not revert if this cap is breached. As a result, protection sellers can lose much more than losses faced by protection buyers (refer POC)

## Vulnerability Detail

`lockCapital` function loops over each active protection index - for every active protection, minimum of protection amount or remaining principal (calculated by `GoldFinchAdapter`) is added to total lockedAmount. This amount is then reduced from `totalSTokenUnderlying` and will not be accessible to protection sellers.

Code snippet below shows the calculations:

```solidity
  function lockCapital(address _lendingPoolAddress)
    external
    payable
    override
    onlyDefaultStateManager
    whenNotPaused
    returns (uint256 _lockedAmount, uint256 _snapshotId)
  {

    ...

     uint256 _length = activeProtectionIndexes.length();
    for (uint256 i; i < _length; ) {
      /// Get protection info from the storage
      uint256 _protectionIndex = activeProtectionIndexes.at(i);
      ProtectionInfo storage protectionInfo = protectionInfos[_protectionIndex];

      /// Calculate remaining principal amount for a loan protection in the lending pool
      uint256 _remainingPrincipal = poolInfo
        .referenceLendingPools
        .calculateRemainingPrincipal(
          _lendingPoolAddress,
          protectionInfo.buyer,
          protectionInfo.purchaseParams.nftLpTokenId
        );

      /// Locked amount is minimum of protection amount and remaining principal
      uint256 _protectionAmount = protectionInfo
        .purchaseParams
        .protectionAmount;
      uint256 _lockedAmountPerProtection = _protectionAmount <
        _remainingPrincipal
        ? _protectionAmount
        : _remainingPrincipal;

      _lockedAmount += _lockedAmountPerProtection; //- audit if cumulative protection > remaining principal, _lockedAmount will be higher than actual
 

      unchecked {
        ++i;
      }

    }

   ...

  }
```

If smaller protection amounts are purchased multiple times that cumulatively add up to be greater than principal outstanding, for every active protection, protection amount would be added to `_lockedAmount`. There is no check to see if the cumulative `_lockedAmount` for each buyer overflows beyond the `remainingPrincipal` for that buyer. 

## Impact
Consider the POC
- Protection sellers have deposited 500k into the protection pool that covers multiple lending pools including Goldfinch Pool A
- Alice has a loan position of 100k USDC in GoldFinch Pool A (for simplicity, assume Alice is only user buying protection on PoolA)
- Alice has bought protection of 50k USDC 3 times totalling 150k USDC (Nothing stops her from doing this as cumulative protection amount already purchased is currently not tracked by protocol before allowing new protection purchase)
- Assume that specific Lending Pool goes from `Active` status to `Late`
- Also assume that remaining principal for Alice is still $100k USDC 
- When `LockedCapital` is called on all 3 active protections, a sum of $150k USDC gets locked in protocol. Maximum payout by protocol should have been only $100k

Protection sellers cannot withdraw the additional $50k USDC locked in the protocol.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-02-carapace/blob/main/contracts/core/pool/ProtectionPool.sol#L401

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
`lockCapital` function should calculate `_lockedAmount` for each buyer. Cumulative sum of `_lockedAmount` for a given buyer should be capped at the remaining principal for that buyer. 

Ideally, this case should never happen if protocol restricts `buyProtection` to a condition that cumulative protection bought across all active protections for a single buyer should never exceed the remaining principal for that buyer. 

In any case, an additional check to cap `_lockedAmount` per buyer is necessary to prevent loss to sellers at all times